{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Impact;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Black;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\lang9\ul\b\f0\fs144 NetSaver Pro\ulnone\f1\par
\cf0\b0\f2\fs22 ========\par
\par
Please scroll down if you want to ask a question, request a feature or report a bug.\par
\par
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)\par
--------------------------------\par
\par
<a name="FAQ0"></a>\par
**(0) How do I use NetSaver Pro?**\par
\par
* Enable the firewall using the switch in the action bar\par
* Allow/deny Wi-Fi/mobile internet access using the icons along the right side of the application list\par
\par
You can use the settings menu to change from blacklist mode (allow all in *Settings* but block unwanted applications in list) to whitelist mode (block all in *Settings* but allow favorite applications in list).\par
\par
* Red/orange/yellow/amber = internet access denied\par
* Teal/blue/purple/grey = internet access allowd\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(1) Can NetSaver Pro completely protect my privacy?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
No - nothing can completely protect your privacy.\par
NetSaver Pro will do its best, but it is limited by the fact it must use the VPN service.\par
This is the trade-off required to make a firewall which does not require root access.\par
The firewall will only get started when the Android "allows" it to start,\par
so it will not offer protection during the early boot-up (although your network may not be loaded at that time).\par
It will, however, be much better than nothing, especially if you are not rebooting often.\par
\par
If you want to protect yourself more, you can (at least in theory) disable Wi-Fi and mobile data before rebooting,\par
and only enable them on reboot, after the firewall service has started (and the small key icon is visible in the status bar).\par
\par
Thanks \par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(2)  Can I use another VPN application while using NetSaver Pro**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
If the VPN application is using the [VPN service](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/net/VpnService.html),\par
then no, because NetSaver Pro needs to use this service. Android allows only one application at a time to use this service.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(3) Can I use NetSaver Pro on any Android version?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
No, the minimum required Android version is 4.0 (Lollipop)\par
because NetSaver Pro uses the [addDisallowedApplication](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/net/VpnService.Builder.html#addDisallowedApplication(java.lang.String)) method.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(4) Will NetSaver Pro use extra battery power?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
If you didn't enable IP filtering, probably not.\par
\par
However, the network speed graph notification will use extra battery power.\par
This is why the notification is shown only when the screen is on.\par
You can decrease the update frequency using the settings to reduce the battery usage.\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(6) Will NetSaver Pro send my internet traffic to an external (VPN) server?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
No, depending on the mode of operation basically one of two things will happen with your internet traffic:\par
\par
* When IP filtering is disabled, blocked internet traffic will be routed into the local VPN which will operate as sinkhole (in effect dropping all blocked traffic)\par
* When IP filtering is enabled, both blocked and allowed internet traffic will be routed into the local VPN and only allowed traffic will be forwarded to the intended destination (so not to a VPN server)\par
\par
The [Android VPN service](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/net/VpnService.html) is being used to locally route all internet traffic to NetSaver Pro so no root is required to build a firewall application.\par
NetSaver Pro is unlike all other no-root firewalls applications.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(7) Why are applications without internet permission shown?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
Internet permission can be granted with each application update without user consent.\par
By showing all applications, NetSaver Pro allows you to control internet access even *before* such an update occurs.\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(8) What do I need to enable for the Google Play\'99 store app to work?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
You need 3 packages (applications) enabled (use search in NetSaver Pro to find them quickly):\par
\par
* com.android.vending (Play store)\par
* com.google.android.gms (Play services)\par
* com.android.providers.downloads (Download manager)\par
\par
Since the Google Play\'99 store app has a tendency to check for updates or even download them all by itself (even if no account is associated),\par
one can keep it in check by enabling "*Allow when device in use*" for all 3 of these packages.\par
Click on the down arrow on the left side of an application name and check that option,\par
but leave the network icons set to red (hence blocked).The little human icon will appear for those packages.\par
\par
Note that NetSaver Pro does not require any Google service to be installed.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(9) Why is the VPN service being restarted?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
The VPN service will be restarted when you turn the screen on or off and when connectivity changes (Wi-Fi, mobile)\par
to apply the rules with the conditions '*Allow when screen is on*' and '*Block when roaming*'.\par
\par
See [here](http://forum.xda-developers.com/showpost.php?p=65723629&postcount=1788) for more details.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(10) Will you provide a Tasker plug-in?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
If disabling NetSaver Pro is allowed to Tasker, any application can disabled NetSaver Pro too.\par
Allowing to disable a security application from other applications is not a good idea.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(13) How can I remove the ongoing NetSaver Pro entry in the notification screen?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
* Long click the NetSaver Pro notification\par
* Tap the 'i' icon\par
* Depending on your device and/or ROMs manufacturer software customizations, you can be directed to either:\par
  * the **App Info** screen and you can uncheck '*Show notifications*' and agree to the next dialog\par
  * the **App Notifications** screen and you can toggle the '*Block*' slider to on\par
\par
Note that, whether or not you get a dialog warning to agree upon,\par
this operation will disable any information or warning notifications from NetSaver Pro as well,\par
like the new application installed notification.\par
\par
To read about the need for the notification in the first place, see [question 24](#FAQ24).\par
\par
Some Android versions display an additional notification, which might include a key icon.\par
This notification can unfortunately not be removed.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(14) Why can't I select OK to approve the VPN connection request?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
There might be another (invisible) application on top of the VPN connection request dialog.\par
Some known (screen dimming) applications which can cause this are *Lux Brightness*, *Night Mode* and *Twilight*.\par
To avoid this problem, at least temporary, close all applications and/or services which may be running in the background.\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32\par
**(15) Why won't you support the F-Droid builds?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
Because F-Droid doesn't support reproducible builds.\par
Read [here](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/deterministic-builds-part-one-cyberwar-and-global-compromise) why this is important.\par
\par
Another reason is that F-Droid builds are more often than not outdated, leaving users with an old version with known bugs.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(16) Why are some applications shown dimmed?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
Disabled applications and applications without internet permission are shown dimmed.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(17) Why is NetSaver Pro so much memory?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
It isn't, NetSaver Pro doesn't allocate any memory, except a little for displaying the user interface elements.\par
It appeared that on some Android variants the Google Play\'99 store app connection, using almost 150 MB and needed for in-app donations,\par
is incorrectly attributed to NetSaver Pro instead to the Google Play\'99 store app.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(18) Why can't I findNetSaver Pro in the Google Play\'99 store app?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
NetSaver Pro requires at least Android 4.0, so it is not available in the Google Play\'99 store app for devices running older Android versions.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(19) Why does aplication XYZ still have internet access?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
If you block internet access for an application, there is no way around it.\par
However, applications could access the internet through other applications.\par
Google Play services is handling push messages for most applications for example.\par
You can prevent this by blocking internet access for the other application as well.\par
\par
Note that some applications keep trying to access the internet, which is done by sending a connection request packet.\par
This packet goes into the VPN sinkhole when internet access for the application is blocked.\par
This packet consists of less than 100 bytes and is counted by Android as outgoing traffic\par
and will be visible in the speed graph notification as well.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(20) Can I Greenify/hibernate NetSaver Pro?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
No. [Greenifying](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.oasisfeng.greenify)\par
or otherwise hibernating NetSaver Pro will result in rules not being applied\par
when connectivity changes from Wi-Fi/mobile, screen on/off and roaming/not roaming.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(21) Does doze mode affect NNetSaver Pro?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
I am not sure, because the [doze mode documentation](http://developer.android.com/training/monitoring-device-state/doze-standby.html)\par
is not clear if the [Android VPN service](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/net/VpnService.html) will be affected.\par
\par
To be sure you can disable battery optimizations for NetSaver Pro manually like this:\par
\par
```\par
Android settings > Battery > three dot menu > Battery optimizations > Dropdown > All apps > NetSaver Pro> Don't optimize > Done\par
```\par
\par
This cannot be done from the application,\par
because according to Google NetSaver Pro is [not an application type allowed to do this](http://developer.android.com/training/monitoring-device-state/doze-standby.html#whitelisting-cases).\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(22) Can I tether / use Wi-Fi calling while using NetSaver Pro?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
Yes, but this needs to be enabled in the settings.\par
If it works depends on your Android version,\par
because some Android versions have a bug preventing tethering and the VPN service to work together.\par
\par
Some devices hibernate Wi-Fi preventing tethering to work when the screen is off.\par
This behavior can be disabled in the Android enhanced/advanced Wi-Fi settings.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(24) Can you remove the notification from the status bar?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
Android can kill background services at any time.\par
This can only be prevented by turning a background service into a foreground service.\par
Android requires an ongoing notification for all foreground services\par
to make you aware of potential battery usage (see [question 4](#FAQ4)).\par
So, the notification cannot be removed without causing instability.\par
However, the notification is being marked as low priority,\par
which should result in moving it to the bottom of the list.\par
\par
The key icon and/or the VPN running notification,\par
which is shown by Android and not by NetSaver Pro, can unfortunately not be removed.\par
The [Google documentation](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/net/VpnService.html) says:\par
"*A system-managed notification is shown during the lifetime of a VPN connection*".\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(25) Can you add a 'select all'?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
There is no need for a select all function,\par
because you can switch from black list to white list mode using the settings.\par
See also [question 0](#FAQ0).\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(27) How do I read the blocked traffic log?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
The columns have the following meaning:\par
\par
1. Time (tap on a log entry to see the date)\par
1. Application icon (tap on a log entry to see the application name)\par
1. Application UID\par
1. Wi-Fi / mobile connection, green=allowed, red=blocked\par
1. Interactive state (screen on or off)\par
1. Protocol (see below) and packet flags (see below)\par
1. Source and destination port (tap on a log entry to lookup a destination port)\par
1. Source and destination IPv4 or IPv6 address (tap on a log entry to lookup a destination IP address)\par
1. Organization name owning the IP address (need to be enabled through the menu)\par
\par
Protocols:\par
\par
* ICMP\par
* IGMP\par
* ESP (IPSec)\par
* TCP\par
* UDP\par
* Number = one of the protocols in [this list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_IP_protocol_numbers)\par
* 4 = IPv4\par
* 6 = IPv6\par
\par
Packet flags:\par
\par
* S = SYN\par
* A = ACK\par
* P = PSH\par
* F = FIN\par
* R = RST\par
\par
For a detailed explanation see [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol).\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(28) Why is Google connectivity services allowed internet access by default?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
The Google connectivity services system application checks if the current network is really connected to the internet.\par
This is probably done by briefly connecting to some Google server.\par
\par
If this is not the case, there will be an '!' in the Wi-Fi or mobile icon in the system status bar.\par
\par
Recent Android versions seem not to switch connectivity from mobile to Wi-Fi when the Wi-Fi network is not really connected,\par
even though there is a connection to the Wi-Fi network (or the other way around). On Android 6.0 and later you might get a notification asking you if you want to keep this connection on or not.\par
To prevent a bad user experience there is a predefined rule to default allow the Google connectivity services.\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(29) Why do I get 'The item you requested is not available for purchase'?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
You can only purchase pro feature when you installed NetSaver Pro from the Play store.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(30) Can I also run AFWall+ on the same device?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
Unless you are just testing NetSaver Pro, there is no current reason to use them both, since they cover the same function (firewall),\par
although with different base needs (AFWall+ needs a rooted device) and ways of doing their thing (AFWall+ uses iptables).\par
\par
Also you need to keep per applicaton access rules _always_ in sync,\par
else the application will not be able to access the network,\par
hence bringing another level of complexity when setting and assuring things work out.\par
\par
Some pointers on how to set up AFWall+:\par
* if not using filtering in NetSaver Pro, applications _need_ direct internet access (Wi-Fi and/or mobile) in AFWall+\par
* if using filtering, NetSaver Pro will _need_ internet access (Wi-Fi and/or mobile) in AFWall+\par
* if using filtering, when you un/reinstall NetSaver Pro, remember to RE-allow NetSaver Pro in AFWall+\par
* if using filtering, applications _need_ VPN internet access (check the box to show that option in AFWall+ settings)\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs28\par
**(31) Why can some applications be configured as a group only?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
For a lot of purposes, including network access, Android groups applications on UID and not on package/application name.\par
Especially system applications often have the same UID, despite having a different package and application name, these are set up like this by the ROM manufacturer at build time.\par
These applications can only be allowed/blocked access to the internet as a group.\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(32) Why is the battery/network usage of NetSaver Pro so high?**\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\par
This is because Android contributes battery and network usage which is normally contributed to other applications\par
to NetSaver Prod in IP filtering mode. The total battery usage is slightly higher when IP filtering mode is enabled.\par
IP filtering mode is always enabled on Android version before 5.0 and optionally enabled on later Android versions.\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(33) Can you add profiles?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
Profiles are inconvenient because they need to be operated manually.\par
Conditions like '*When screen is on*' are on the other hand convenient because they work automatic.\par
Therefore profiles will not be added, but you are welcome to propose new conditions,\par
however they need to be generally usable to be included.\par
\par
As a workaround you can use the export/import function to apply specific settings in specific circumstances.\par
\cf2\b\fs32\par
**(34) Can you add the condition 'when on foreground'?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
Recent Android versions do not allow an application to query if other applications are in the foreground or background anymore,\par
so this cannot be added. You can use the condition '*when screen is on*' instead.\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(35) Why does the VPN not start?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
NetSaver Pro "asks" Android to start the local VPN service,\par
but some Android versions contain a bug which prevents the VPN from starting (automatically).\par
Sometimes this is caused by updating NetSaver Pro.\par
Unfortunately this cannot be fixed from NetSaver Pro.\par
What you can try is to restart your device and/or revoke the VPN permissions from NetSaver Pro using the Android settings.\par
Sometimes it helps to uninstall and install NetSaver Pro again (be sure to export your settings first).\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(36) Can you add PIN or password protection?**\cf0\fs24\par
\b0\fs22\par
Since turning off the VPN service using the Android settings cannot be prevented,\par
there is little use in adding PIN or password protection.\par
\par
\cf2\b\fs32 **(37) Why are the pro features so expensive?**\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
The right question is "*why are there so many taxes and fees*":\par
\par
* VAT: 25% (depending on your country)\par
* Google fee: 30%\par
* Income tax: 50%\par
\par
So, what is left for the developer is just a fraction of what you pay.\par
\par
Despite NetSaver Pro being *really* a lot of work, only some of the convenience and advanced features are paid,\par
which means that NetSaver Pro  is basically free to use.\par
\par
Also note that most free applications will appear not to be sustainable in the end, whereas NetSaver Pro is properly maintained and supported.\par
\par
\par
}
